**Present:**
* Mateusz Kuzak
* Raniere Silva
* Lex Nederbragt
* Tracy Teal
* Kate Hertweck
* Amy Hodge
* Sue McClatchy
* Elizabeth Wickes
* Jonah Duckles

**Apologies:**
* Karen Cranston
* Ethan White

### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting June 28, 2018 

**038/18 Self-organized workshop fee and membership value proposition**
* Jonah introduces, see his notes (link above)
    * SWC always had a suggested donation for self-organised workshops, DC (and LC) do not, wish for harmonized policy
    * Funder campaigns could be very useful
    * New memberships currently outweigh renewals
    * Non-renewal often either financial challenges or ‘enough instructors’
    * What membership organisations pay for is Instructor Training, brings up long-term value proposition to spread that out - brainstorming phase for now
    * Continued learning is not really a focus of our organisation - should it be?
* Data Carpentry Genomics workshop uses Amazon instances - paid for by Amazon grant; setting these up does not take too much staff time → does not really cost that much to warrant a fee
* Could ‘lesson development training’ be a new Lesson Program for the Carpentries? Process started for lesson development handbook, huge potential (Sloan grant)
* How to prioritize selecting non-membership trainee candidates? We have a [rubric](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/blob/gh-pages/files/rubric.md) for evaluation. Training cohorts works very well, while the-lone-trainer often seem not to
* How can EC help to recruit members? → focus on new institutions, geographies
* What is Platinum membership → instructor trainer(s) present, some then give in-kind contributions so can result in discount
* **Motion**: The Carpentries Executive Council moves that The Carpentries are not charging or suggesting a fee to host organizations for self-organized Carpentries workshops - from Kate, seconded by Mateusz. Motion **approved** by 7 of 7 members present
    * **Action points**
        * Staff will coordinate with Sue from EC on a blog post about this motion and what self-organized workshops are
        * Will need to communicate with Member Organizations?
        * Tracy and Elizabeth Williams will check on upcoming workshops that paid a $500 fee and communicate as needed

**039/18 Communication plan**
* We discussed and adjusted the plan
* Aim not to overload each month
* A suggestion was made to move it to Github as a set of issues
* Elizabeth will coordinate with Belinda on assigning some dates to the blog posts and assigning people GitHub issues

**040/18 Mission and Vision**
* Mateusz (and Ethan) asking for feedback in the Google Docs they prepared
* Aim is to release RFC for Mission and Vision in July, e.g. announcement after July 26th meeting
* Asynchronous process worked for Data Carpentry M&V process
* **Action points**
    * Mateusz and Ethan to narrow down current versions for us to choose between/comment on

**041/18 Strategic planning**
* Staff working on teams and scoping their tasks for them
* Still seems like the short-term goals are too much to do. How can we scope these out to concrete things we can act upon?

**042/18 Budget**
* ED has a question about changing to a cash-based accounting approach. Wants to make sure we are all on the same page with this approach.
* This approach is based on spending decisions based on what you have in the bank right now. Does not include money that you expect to be coming in in the future for making these decisions as accrual based does. Anticipation is that this approach will help prevent overspending and make conservative decisions. Cash method does not give a complete picture at any given point in time.

**043/18 Human Resources**

* ED is having some professional improvement plan (PIP) conversations with some of the staff.
* **Action point**: Kate will follow up with Tracy about professional development and HR topics. 

