## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting January 12, 2018

**Present:**

* Sue McClatchy
* Raniere Silva
* Lex Nederbragt
* Karen Cranston (chair)
* Mateusz Kuzak
* Amy Hodge
* Ethan White (note taker)
* Tracy Teal
* Kate Hertweck
* Elizabeth Wickes


**Meeting minutes:**

* **001/18 Opening**
    * Karen Cranston opened the meeting
    * Ethan White agreed to make the minutes
* **002/18 introductions**
    * All members of the Executive Council (EC), and the Executive Director (ED) introduced themselves
* **003/18 Plan for running meetings**
    * We decided to use Zoom calls
    * Use Zoom chat to virtually raise hand to contribute to discussion
    * Meeting time
        * **Action Point**: the secretary will set up a poll for a general meeting time
        * Possibly could need multiple meetings due to diversity of time zones and difficulty of schedules
* **004/18 Roles, responsibilities and expectations for Executive Council**
    * These are intentionally left vague at this point to allow EC to fully develop
    * EC is so named rather than ‘Board of directors’ since it does not have legal & financial liability
    * The Software Carpentry Steering Committee had an activist role
    * The Data Carpentry board had an advisory role
    * General plan (and associated merger motions) was for the EC to be advisory in nature due to large number of staff taking care of the running of the Carpentries
* **005/18 Background & current state of merger**
    * SC & DC both voted on two members to form a merger committee to work out plans and motions for merging
    * Simultaneous to the merger moving from [NumFOCUS](https://www.numfocus.org/) to [Community Initiatives](http://communityinitiatives.com/) (CI) as our fiscal sponsor due to need for more backroom support as the organization grows. This also allows staff to be employees instead of independent contractors. Transfer agreement is currently under review by the fiscal sponsors. This will be announced once the transfer agreement is signed. The plan is to complete this transition on February 1, 2018.
    * Issue of how salaries would shift in response to addition of benefits: Current employees are being transitioned at their current salary even with the addition of benefits.
    * Issue of whether CI can employ non-US employees: CI will handle on a case by case basis. The available solutions will vary by country.
    * Issue of whether partnership agreements will need to be moved from NumFOCUS to CI: All partners will sign an addendum. Nothing changes for the partners or the organization. Approach is already approved.
    * Question about the process for selecting Community Initiatives: Not many fiscal sponsors in the open source/education space. Some of those don’t have the backoffice capacity required. We didn’t have enough revenue for some. CI was the best option for a combination of backoffice capacity and the focus of the organization.
* **006/18 Financial report**
    * We are financially healthy. ~$850,000 in the bank, which is roughly 9 months of operating expenses. There are an additional $200,000 in outstanding invoices.
    * Partly this is due to DC running on the Moore Foundation grant while accumulating revenue. This grant has now ended.
    * **Action point**: Tracy will send a financial report to the EC to review and discuss
    * The staff will maintain a full set of books to allow rapid responses to financial questions going forward
* **007/18 Immediate priorities**
    * Bylaw development: Should be lead by a smaller group (see below) bringing discussion points to the larger group. May be some synergies with the board governance study group.
    * Communication & voting strategies: Need a plan for what is discussed in EC meetings vs. asynchronously and outside meetings and also how these two components of interaction are handled technically. Could be developed by the Secretary and/or Communications Director
    * Board study group: Reading and discussion of how to be the best board we can be by learning about how to do this
* **008/18 Executive Council officers**
    * Given the size of this board having people in specific roles would be beneficial
    * One person expressed interest in each role so our initial officers are
        * Chair: Karen
        * Vice chair: Kate
        * Treasurer: Sue
        * Secretary: Lex
        * Communications Director: Mateusz
* **009/18 Writing of the Carpentries Bylaws**
    * Will require a substantive time commitment
    * We established a Bylaw writing group: Kate, Lex, Raniere
    * Organizer/manager: Elizabeth
    * There are no time requirements from CI’s perspective (they do not require Bylaws at all, but recommend it)
    * We set a goal of the Bylaw writing for 4-6 months, but absolutely no later than the fall 2018 election
* **010/18 In person EC meeting**
    * Valuable for developing good working relationships among the EC and quickly making progress on challenging topics
    * Develop mission and vision statements
    * We discussed meeting at CarpentryCon but that doesn’t work for at least one member of the board
    * Raniere can only go abroad after the end of March due his UK visa paperwork. He can host the in person meeting in Manchester.
    * We find it potentially useful to have staff present as well
* **011/18 Tools for EC management**
    * Shared Google Drive folder
    * EC mailing list (EC + ED)
    * There is a private GitHub repository
        * Carpentries staff have access to this one
        * It was suggested we may want to set up a separate Github organization for the EC
    * Staff are happy to facilitate additional infrastructure needs
    * **Action point**: Karen will make sure that everyone has access to private EC resources
    * GitHub issues can be used for voting on motions

**Action items**

* Karen will make sure that everyone has access to private EC resources
* Secretary will set up a poll for a general meeting time
* Tracy will send a financial report to the EC to review and discuss
* Bios: Members of the EC who have not added bios for the website should add them by the end of Monday January 15th
(Minutes written during the meeting by Ethan, prepared afterwards by Lex)
