### **Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting December 6, 2018**

**095/18 Community Service Awards**

* Survey requesting nominations for awards from instructors, trainers, mentors

* Give award for under-recognized contributions not intended to promote popular well known contributors

* We discussed the nominations

* These awards are useful for helping motivate folks doing lots of hard work.

* We discussed having more awards - general agreement that there isn’t much concern about having too many awards, but perhaps name them so they are distinct in some way

* Would be good to have better guidelines and criteria for the next round to guide decisions

* Carpentry Con community award is "for establishing" rather than “for running”

* Motion: [https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/33](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/33)

    * The Executive Council moves to award the 2018 Community Award to Margareth Gfrerer, Tim Dennis, and Toby Hodges and the 2018 CarpentryCon Community Award to Malvika Sharan and Fotis Psomopoulos

    * Motion passed

* Action points

    * Write blog post detailing the contributions of each individual

    * Send certificate to awardees

**096/18 Elections**

* Status: 980 ballots sent, 18% voted so far

* Twice as many ballots as previous election due primarily to looser requirements for voting membership

* Need a way to encourage members to keep information up-to-date to minimize time and energy tracking down voting members

* Next week’s meeting will focus on council-elected seats

    * New names can still be put forward by Executive Council members

    * Looking to fill gaps so will circulate results of member election in advance of discussion

    * Issue being opened to list current names and start discussion of specific individuals before next meeting

* Do we need to vote next week - general agreement to yes

* Need to get in touch with people and see if they are interested in serving and need to do this quickly

* Chair will contact everyone in the associated issue with set language to get commitments to serve if elected

* Need to develop plans for recusal in cases where an existing council member is under consideration for a council elected seat

**097/18 Plan for Executive Council to community communication**

* Proposal to publish resolutions/motions in newsletter

* Are there issues with cases where minutes aren’t approved yet?

    * Not if the motions are voted on in a public GitHub issues

    * Some motions (e.g., with names related to awards) might not be appropriate to put in public before the motion has passed

**098/18 Executive Council Officers**

* Do we need policy around officers to facilitate smooth transitions? E.g., Should the chair be someone who is not new to council?

* Developing good guidelines and onboarding processes around expectations for officers will also be important.

**099/18 Bylaws Cleanup**

* Bylaws are currently in both the handbook and a GitHub repo

* Agreement to archive the GitHub repo to keep the record but avoid confusion about the primary source for the Bylaws

**100/18 Staff & Executive Council involvement in Code of Conduct committee**

* The existing Enforcement Manual task force is working on this

* The Executive Council liaison will report back on this to the Code of Conduct

**101/18 Values**

* Is it OK for staff to draft some values statements as proposals to be presented to the Executive Council?

    * Yes
