### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting October 4, 2018

**072/18 Communicating about approved Mission statement**

Tracy: shall we announce mission and Vision at the same time?

Karen: needs to write a blog post, she will write a blog post

annual report should come out

should come out before October 23rd

**073/18 Plans for Vision statement**

we need to make sure it’s on our minds

it took time to discuss it

we’ll focus on bylaws

not rushing the Vision statement

milestone? November?

**074/18 Board-elected candidates**

in last meeting we realised we missed the details how to make a list of people to vote on for board-elected. Giving a timeline we don’t have time to ask member organisations for candidates. Does anyone from Executive Council  have any candidates? How should we proceed here? Being open is important. We should have a blog post describing who we are looking for and ask for feedback. A lot of conversations where about that we don’t want to fix it in the bylaws. This should not be strictly encoded in the bylaws. Specific skills that we want to request to help people think if they fit in. Fuzzy area in what should go into the bylaws and what to election policy. it may be confusing for people for which elected member they should apply. We will start a list of potential invitees for self nominations. Approaching the community from Africa. Someone with board experience. Experience leading, experience with open source.

How we can describe to the community, not to come exclusive. How to frame to include people and offer guidance in pathways. Active community member should self-elect.

Are we going to keep the list open after elections. We need second stage to encourage selected people. We need commitment!. We’ll have a form and afterwards we can screen and contact selected candidates. There will be a short list.

Blog post draft was circulated.
Is there anyone active in the pedagogy, education.

some of them would be maybe better in the advisory role

Inclusivity and Diversity, Tracy has some names

**075/18 Bylaws**

Elizabeth synthesized feedback from the community.

Making sure the responses are publicly available.

We should go through subsequent revisions in time. We need to vote on them before soliciting nominations. Can we make an email vote on that without waiting 2 weeks. Agreed on GitHub vote. Another draft in same repository.

We can reply to all the issues and link to all the diffs. We can point to the commit. It’s also ok to explain we decided not to make a change and explain why.

**076/18 Meetings roles - how is this working? Do we need all of the roles?**

It’s been unclear when the gatekeeper came in. The difference between facilitator and gatekeeper is not clear. Maybe we don’t need a gatekeeper because we behave very well. We may revisit with the new board. Facilitator is mostly moving the agenda along. Having separate note taker and time keeper is a good thing. Not being always note taker is a good thing, being able to contribute more to the conversations. Gatekeeper > sub. Facilitator also a gatekeeper. Gatekeeper should take notes when note taker is talking.

**077/18 Non-verbal update: Lesson Program Policy guidelines continuing to be developed.**

Tracy will send out an email.

**078/18  Non-verbal update: Share the job postings!**

lots of candidates, and good candidates too

within couple of hours

**079/18 Executive Council  study group**

October Executive Council study group poll for dates. Topic - CHAPTER 7 Protect Assets and Provide Financial Oversight.

Sue will send the mail to full list.
