**Present**
* Lex Nederbragt, Karen Cranston, Tracy Teal, Ethan White, Raniere Silva, Sue McClatchy, Kate Hertweck, Elizabeth Wickes, Amy Hodge
**Apologies**
* Mateusz Kuzak
### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting April 26th, 2018
* **024/18 Harmonizing workshop fees**
    * Harmonising workshop fee descriptions
        * SWC [https://software-carpentry.org/workshops/request/](https://software-carpentry.org/workshops/request/) has option to do self-hosted, option for for-profit
        * DC [http://www.datacarpentry.org/workshops-host](http://www.datacarpentry.org/workshops-host) has no option to do self-hosted or for-profit
        * Handbook: [https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/workshop_administration/workshop_admin_workflow.html#for-self-organized-workshops](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/workshop_administration/workshop_admin_workflow.html#for-self-organized-workshops)
        * Tracy made a "Background on fees" text, see link in agenda proposals
    * Should we have one policy for the whole Carpentries or differentiate between either Lesson programs or workshops?
    * Discussion points
        * libraries may be different in terms how easy it is for them to fund Carpentry (style) workshops
        * depends on funding model for larger organisation in the future
        * For-profit numbers are mostly aligned but DC decided not to have that on the web, to discuss with entity beforehand. Self-organised one needs more discussion.
        * Philosophy is ‘self-organised is free with suggested donation’ versus ‘self-organised costs a fee but can be waived’. Donation is problematic at many institutions.
        * being able to do free self-hosting is major selling point locally.
        * The option to ask payment for use of lesson material was discussed but it would probably be unpopular with our communities.
    * EC decided to ask the staff to write up a proposal that Tracy puts up for vote on next meeting.
    * **Action point**: Tracy will get numbers on of self-organised workshops not associated with a member organisation.
    * **Action point**: Tracy to write up a proposal on new github repo.
* **025/18 Status of the Mission and Vision listening tour.**
    * Tracy, Amy and Elizabeth in charge
    * Plan: ‘you belong’ tour is not a formal survey, but way to generate community discussion on different channels
        * Zoom, twitter chats
        * Etherpad
        * Feedback form (anonymous)
    * Uses a ‘focus group’ approach
    * Looking at dates mid to later half of May (May 9-12), before CarpentryCon
    * Collate/review (with staff) for face-to-face meeting
    * EC supports the process, go!
* **026/18 Bylaws: discussion of ‘Lesson Programs’ and ‘Nominations and elections’ and plans for next steps**
    * Process is to review sections for which Bylaws committee has written drafts
    * What’s next, community input?
    * Bylaws writing group aims to get language before face-to-face with goal of RFC (Request For Comments) to community afterwards. Bylaws supplemented with additional policy documents. We need to specify nominations&elections and membership in bylaws.
    * EC and ED generally happy with progress and process
    * It was suggested to add a deadline for feedback when sending out drafts - probably OK to stick to next EC meeting
    * We discussed individual memberships and the new idea to have tiers
        * Tier 1, only requires small contribution
            * Would include helpers
            * Allows participation in community
        * Tier 2, needs more active participation
            * Gives voting privilege
    * Good idea conceptually; current impression is ‘you have to teach to be a member’, this opens for inclusivity especially around helpers
    * Work in progress, not ready for voting yet; we will include staff in the discussion, important role in administration of membership
    * EC concludes we support this two-tiered concept
* **027/18 Library Carpentry update and planning next steps**
    * Library Carpentry is going forward in a good way. Staff wants to help Library Carpentry find direction and start to formalising the relationship. We discussed to use same model as for merger: The Carpentries (EC) and LC vote on motions to work towards incorporation of LC as Lesson Program
    * EC sees this as a prototype case for how we bring on other organisations
    * We can co-develop bylaws and procedures with incorporation of LC in mind
    * Need bylaws and procedures in place, can LC be wait? Looks like they don’t mind waiting
    * We decided it would be good to have a documented intent  and that we are comfortable passing a motion of intent before our bylaws are in place
    * This would reduce confusion in the community where LC stands in relation to Carpentries, a motion would show alignment, give clarity and prevent drift
    * **Action point**: Karen to put a motion forward on github for voting so we can communicate result to LC before their May 15th meeting
* **028/18 ****A****genda for f2f meeting**
    * We decided to start to think about this in advance of formalizing at next meeting
    * Quick round on goals for that meeting
        * Mission & Vision
        * Bylaws
        * Plan forward for strategic plan
        * To what extent is the EC a board (as described in the book the study group) versus an executive committee (with most members very actively engaged in activities) (includes how we interact with staff)
        * Annual cycle for EC from election to election
            * Goals, deadlines (e.g. for strategic plan)
            * Can we co-plan CarpentryCon (when that happens) and face-to-face?
    * We discussed not to discuss bylaws wording in detail
        * general decisions on what goes into bylaws and into separate policies
        * use face-to-face for major decisions which bylaws committee can prepare in advance
* **028/18 Blog post from Executive Council**
    * We would like to see one from EC to inform community
    * **Action point**: Raniere volunteers to draft one with Mateusz
