**Present**
* Lex Nederbragt, Amy Hodge, Mateusz Kuzak, Karen Cranston, Kate Hertweck, Elizabeth Wickes, Ethan White, Tracy Teal
**Apologies**
* Raniere Silva, Sue McClatchy
### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting May 24th, 2018
* **029/18 Status of the Mission and Vision listening tour **
    * No progress due to lack of time, reassessing
    * Planning to launch at CarpentryCon
    * **Action Point**: Tracy to put together an outline for process (modelled after the Data Carpentry one)
* **030/18 f2f agenda update**
    * A draft agenda will be put together next week and sent around
    * **Action point**: Karen to send out draft agenda
    * Staff is putting together status report for the meeting, which we should try to read beforehand
        * Includes metrics and projections on workshops and attendance
    * **Action point: **Tracy to send out accommodation reservation info
* **031/18 Motion to start merger talks with Library Carpentry**
    * Was voted on [through GitHub issue](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council/issues/13)
    * Motion text: The Carpentries enters into a conversation with Library Carpentry about incorporating Library Carpentry as a Carpentries lesson program
    * Votes: 6 for, no against, two no-votes, motion approved
    * About the process of proposing motions and voting on them through GitHub: as such it works, we need some guidelines about how long motions are open before votes are counted
    * Process beyond this motion: depends on Bylaws and writing up procedures for merger
    * Operational alignment not as advanced as SWC/DC when they decided to merge, working towards this
    * We discussed a disconnect some of us feel: we seem to be operating on the tacit assumption that we WILL accept LC as a lesson program, rather than actually considering whether it’s a good fit
        * do we set a minimum time between an agreement to start discussions and a potential EC decision?
    * **Action Point**: Kate to communicate to LC where we are in the process with the Bylaws etc
    * We discussed to perhaps start conversations with other emerging carpentry’s (HPC Carpentry comes to mind) earlier rather than later to smoothen onboarding
    * Getting LC on board is good for The Carpentries too, as long as we both are aware where we are expectations can be managed
* **032/18 Formal source of decisions related to CoC violations**
    * Ethan (our liaison to CoC policy committee) explains
    * CoC policy cmt: Question raised where formal decision in violation cases should come from, not comfortable doing that themselves
    * We discussed different solutions, with CoC Policy Committee (PC), or ED as decision maker, involvement of EC or not
        * would be OK that ED is that person
        * there is value having that come from (someone from) EC
        * should prevent time delays due to EC involvement
        * OK with CoC PC being where formal decision lies, we should be able to trust them on that
    * PC would like rubber stamp from EC, it is about who *communicates* the information on the decision the PC arrives at
    * EC seems to agree that CoC PC should remain body to community decisions
* **033/18 GDPR updates**
    * GDPR General Data Protection Regulation, new EU data protection regulations
    * Tracy: staff working towards compliance (e.g. our ‘AMY’ database), updating privacy policy, expect emails soon
* **034/18 Mini CarpentryCons**
    * Tracy: UC Davis (Titus Brown) has a regional one planned, Anelda van der Walt is planning one in S Africa. Should EC be involved? Will work out branding etc after CarpentryCon
    * EC decided there is no need for direct involvement, but we are supportive, need guidelines and mutual expectations (e.g. funding, CoC)
* **035/18 Digital Preservation Summer Student project** (see [Github Issue](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/minutes-private/issues/1))
    * Elizabeth:
        * Date holder: July 31 is the student report outs on the digi pres class doing a 12 week project examining The Carpentries.  [Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Digi+pres+student+report+outs&iso=20180731T18&p1=3704&ah=3)
        * Will result in document for long-term preservation (e.g, what happens when Github or Google Doc disappear at some point in the future)
        * Meant to be client report-outs, with us as clients
* **036/18 Funding from Nordic eInfrastructure Collaboration [NeIC](http://neic.no/)**
    * Lex got a grant funded for 5 SWC workshops in the Nordics (travel, accommodation, SWC fee)
    * NeIC is considering becoming a member org
* **037/18 Staff changes at Community initiatives**
    * Everything is going well with CI but they announced some unexpected staff changes
    * ED has an eye on it, and feels there is no need to be concerned
