
### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting July 26, 2018

**Present**: Sue, Amy, Mateusz, Elizabeth, Kate, Karen, Tracy, Ethan

**Apologies**: Lex, Raniere

**044/18 Review new meeting structure/expectations**
* Put meeting agenda together in advance. Thanks to Kate for the help.
* No questions on the meeting format. May need to revisit voting if we don’t have time for everything on the agenda, but will try this.

**045/18 Mission and Vision discussion**
* Vision
* Informal vote for two versions (including or not including "diverse")
    * Preference for the inclusion of "diverse"
    * Discussed and decided to change the last "and" to an “&”
* Mission discussion
* There was a GitHub discussion of separating the core values into a separate set of core values statements
* Decided to separate the "values" into an entirely separate discussion and a separate RFC and remove the final sentence of the draft mission statement that mentions them
* Discussed concerns that "research labs" implies science
* Discussed possibility of changing end of last sentence to "conducting and supporting research and scholarship." Concern that this removes the scoping that this was intended to introduce. Proposal to use the current version expecting more feedback.
* Discussed adding "community" to first sentence and decided against it for now.
* Voting on motion
    * vote on the following motion: The Carpentries Executive Council moves to approve this draft of the mission and vision for release to the community as a Request for Comment.
* Moved by Amy. Seconded by Karen.
* Approved unanimously.
* Plan to include scoping discussion in RFC.
* Discussed whether or not we want to hold future votes on GitHub. Decided that future motions should be done as issues in GitHub for voting there, but these issues need to be created before the meeting.
* **Action point**: Karen, Ethan & Mateusz responsible for drafting RFC

**046/18 Bylaws**
* Kate will resolve minor comments
* Lots of questions about scoping EC responsibilities. Specific concerns about EC responsibilities beyond participating meetings and providing high level planning and thinking.
* Agreed to remove language about "fundraising" and remove committee responsibility and making financial contributions
* Discussion of how we will seek candidates for appointed members
    * What kind of community involvement?
    * Will the EC provide guidance on what skills it is looking for?
    * How does this fit in the timeline of the election process?
    * **Action point**: Kate to do some drafting of ideas and language in this space
* Do we want a communications officer position in EC?
    * As a community driven group this is an important role
    * These responsibilities need to be explicitly assigned to someone
* Action point: release for RFC

**047/18 Clarification of GitHub repos**
* Which issues go where? Do we need to transfer some over from the private private repo?
* Suggested to assign someone to asses / move issues or document repos more thoroughly
* **Action point**: Karen to work with Lex to help determine rules for usage 

**048/18 Weekly communication plan**
* Mission/vision supposed to go out this week
* May need to delay ByLaws RFC?
    * ETA 2 weeks out
* RFCs should involve blog post + email to instructors list
    * Use GitHub issue for feedback
    * EC writes blog post - including brief summary of RFCs in general
    * Send email from EC member
* Workflow
    * Draft blog post separately
    * Submit PR
    * For big things, send email from EC member to list(s)
    * Add notes to communications document about time sensitivity

**049/18 Staff updates**
* ED will strategically target subsets of EC for feedback. If one of the pinged members thinks the full EC needs to be informed they should pass the information up to the full board.

**050/18 Treasurer report**
* Currently operating at a slight negative
* Transition has been costly (including double fiscal sponsor costs, legal expenses, etc.). These costs should be going away. Still a concern that needs to be monitored and the ED is doing so.
* Carpentry Con & in-person EC also exagerate current difference
* Would like to have 3 months of expenses in bank (currently 2 months)
