## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting January 12th, 2021

Present: Amy, Aleks, Paula, Kari, Elizabeth, Michael, Masami, Lex, Konrad, Sarah, Juan, Joslynn, John, Cedric

Apologies: Mesfin


### 21/01 Welcoming the new Executive Council members
    *   on-boarding will happen on Jan 26thsoon
    *   Introductions round

### 21/02 The Carpentries Executive Council Committees Proposal
    *   Should help to harvest all skills and expertises of the Executive Council members
    *   There might be a disbalance of task towards the Governance Committee
    *   Potentially add an Executive Committee (and then adapted the names to avoid name confusions)
        *   Has all four officers
        *   There might be value in adding non-Executive Council members into such Committee (Executive Council Officers); but have to be careful as these meeting mean also overhead for core team members joining
    *   Currently, we cannot call us a board but try to function as such
    *   We need to include this into the bylaws
    *   Action item:
        *   Provide feedback in the document (everybody until Jan 26)
        *   Think about potential Committee(s) in which you would like to work

### 21/02 Further formalizing the structure of the Executive Council meetings
    *   Should help to make more work between the meeting
    *   Action items:
        *   Provide feedback in the document (everybody until Jan 26)
    *   Suggestion: have one Google document per meeting as suggested before
    *   Suggestion: for better scheduling we could have fixed day of the month (maybe fixed time or rotate); maybe also alternate the length
    *   Topic of discussion of the month, agenda item of high relevance
    *   => action for the future Executive Council

### 21/03 Process the “Informal feedback about decision making transparency” Google form responses
    *   Clarify the roles of the Executive Council - roughly three classes
        *   Decide / vote
        *   Advise
        *   Be informed of
    *   The exact formal process is not always obvious and clear; questions frequently came up during our meetings as to whether the EC needed to vote on a particular issue or not.
    *   Having a rough guideline for the 90% of the cases would help core team and others
    *   Some examples: Public statements; who we should collaborate with / get donations from
    *   Difference between governance and strategy
    *   => action for the future Executive Council

### 21/04 Feedback from Core Team regarding Committee and Task Force policy
    *   Host a Community Discussion session
    *   Action item: (Lex, Sarah, Aleksandra, Konrad)

### 21/05 Minute approcval
* Minutes from 2020 must be approved before Feb 1
