## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting March 16, 2021
* Present: Cedric Chambers, John Chodacki, Konrad Förstner, Kari
  Jordan, Paula Andrea Martinez, Lex Nederbragt, Aleksandra Nenadic,
  Michael Smith, Sarah Stevens, Masami Yamaguchi
* Apologies: None
* Guest: Talisha Sutton-Kennedy (Core Team)

### 21/11 - Walk-through of the budget 2021

The budget of 2021 was presented by Talisha Sutton-Kennedy including
comparison to the budget of 2020.

* The budget looks good from the treasurers point of view
* Last year's actuals for “Fees/License/Misc Taxes” was unusually high
  ($20,979). This value was higher than usual due to startup costs or
  startup fees for establishing international hiring contracts through
  the professional employer organization which allows us to employ
  core team members who reside outside of the US.
* Fund from “Code for Science & Society for CarpentryCon” was received
  in December
* Difference in consultant fees as we are moving from independent
  contractors and doing employment with PEO (Professional employer
  organization). These expenses are now included in salaries and
  benefit expenses. This leads to an increase of salaries and benefits
  as there are now more team members. Increase in fees in 2020 are
  higher because the fees went to PEO for hiring new staff. All
  current core team members have been established so no such fees are
  expected in the foreseeable future. There will be an increase of
  fees once one person, who is currently an independent contractor,
  becomes a member of the core team. There are no plans to hire new
  staff this year.
* Fewer paid workshops are expected for 2021 - 2 for profit and 2
  non-member events per quarter are planned as minimum goals but an
  increased occurrence of centrally organised workshops is currently
  observed so this goals might be exceeded.
  
### 21/12 - Review and discussion of strategic plan activities
* Instructor training needs a more prominent statement in the
   strategic plan due to its importance for the organisation. This
   could be addressed in the 2022 EC in person meeting. EC will decide
   regarding this and inform Kari
* The strategic plan needs to have priorities and sometimes it is not
  possible to include everything especially things where it is
  business as usual. Further adaptation due to COVID-19 pandemic might
  be required.
* Issue summaries in the repo are welcomed/helpful.
* Actions item:
  * Kari will share the blog post of quarterly updates to the strategic plan.
  * Kari will share year 2 of the strategic plan to be reviewed.
  * Kari will go back and review all issues, close finished ones and
    retain the summaries. Then start a year 2 project board - to be
    shared with EC.
* Needed from EC: Either thoughts on draft policy for when and how to
  update the strategic plan or a decision that we are not going to add
  instructor training.
  
### 21/13 - Planning for EC attendance at Core Team meeting
* A survey regarding what decisions EC needs to do, advise, be
  informed vs. give decisions on was created by Elizabeth Williams and
  given to the 2020 EC, the 2021 EC and the Core Team members. The
  results were summarised by Paula.
* In the combined EC and Core team meeting next week we will be split
  into breakout rooms and have a discussion in the survey document. A
  draft framework/flowchart that can be piloted and that can be
  refined over time will be created. The aim is to have a better
  understanding about who has which responsibilities.There will be a
  report to the EC on how this meeting went.
* Lex, Sarah, Aleksandra, Michael will participate in the meeting with
  the core team
  
### 21/14 - Generative mode/mission moment: How and when to involve the community in EC decision making
* It is not clearly stated how and when to involve the community in
  the EC decision making. The bylaws were created in 2018 when the
  Carpentries merged. A request for comments (RFC) was put out and the
  community could respond to it. They were updated again in 2020 (this
  is done biannually) but this was done without RFC or involvement of
  the community. Also the committee policy and task force policy were
  approved without a RFC and the community was only informed
  afterward. It was realized afterwards that we maybe should have
  asked for feedback before. This was a missed opportunity to get the
  community involved but on the other hand we cannot have them
  involved in every small/large decision. Open questions: At what
  point do we say this is a decision we want community feedback on and
  when we will make the decisions?
* The EC was split into groups and given the following task: “Name at
  least one EC decision, past, current, or potential future decision,
  that you feel the community should be involved with, and at least
  one where you feel they shouldn’t.” The results were compiled and
  will be discussed in future.

### Non-verbal updates

* First report-out of the Standing Committees: please share your
  prioritised list of projects
* Officers Committee
  * We were not assigned any issues and did not feel we should
    prioritise issues assigned to other committees
  * We discussed a bit whether we should perhaps first try out the
    Standing Committee structure this year before we formalize it in
    the bylaws, and thus wait with making changes to the bylaws until
    2022
* Finance Committee
  * No meeting yet scheduled. Working with Kari on understanding
    the new Sponsorship Program. Reviewing the document first, then
    sharing with the committee in advance of scheduling our first
    meeting. Chair has had a chance to review the January 2021
    financial report.
* Program Committee
  * We have prioritized Issues #103 (Lesson Program governance),
    #117 (Lessons Teaching Closed Source/Proprietary Tools), #104
    (Mixing lesson content and non-Carpentries content) and #87
    (Non-standard workshop evaluation).
* Governance Committee
* Communications Committee:
  * We will start working on the Rubric for Public Statements
  * The question Who should we align ourselves with is less of
    a question of communication but of central values. We have
    (discussed to reach out to the broader and then to review
    this. This needs further discussion and we will prepare a proposal
    for this.
* Please approve the February Meeting minutes
* The draft financial report for community will first be available
  early April and the item is moved to the April meeting
