## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting January 13, 2020

Present: Kate, Amy, Elizabeth, Karen, Joslynn, Juan, Kari, Lex + new members Konrad, Cedric

Regrets: Raniere, Mesfin


### 20/01 Approval of Strategic Plan

* Need to reconcile two remaining concerns before final voting
* Last bullet under Goal 4 (Facilitate the creation and maintenance of relevant, high-quality, Community-curated curricula) is a major language change: was “Explore coordinating with other related communities on instructor training programs and curriculum”, proposed change to “Leverage our Instructor Training program to expand access to quality pedagogical training across academia.”

  * Change makes it seem like it no longer belongs in goal 4; it combines two previous goals that aren’t in the current draft
  * Can we move it to a different goal? It seems like this is removing part of the intent of the existing language; can we add a new goal elsewhere?
  * ACTION: Amy will contact Erin and ask for some clarity

* Includes discussion of advisory council
  * Include additional perspective from outside the Carpentries community, can provide feedback on strategic plan
  * Need to determine implementation, but doesn’t need to be top priority right away
  * Include a description of the main purpose of the group in strategic plan
  * ACTION: Lex will revise language
* ACTION: finalize changes to strategic plan in preparation for asynchronous vote (as per assignments above); Lex will rework complete plan for a blog post


### 20/02 Officer elections

* Slate to be assembled in January and voted on at February meeting
* Current Treasurer and Vice-Chair will not be at the February meeting
* 2020 EC members should look at roles, contact current officers with questions


### 20/03 Code of Conduct(CoC) committee issues


*  A new CoC liaison will be needed as Karen is our liaison and she will no longer be on the EC. Elizabeth has agreed to step in in the interim. After this meeting, Konrad agreed to officially be the liaison when his term starts. Elizabeth and Konrad will discuss details of the switchover.
*  Do we want to review/approve Code of Conduct(CoC) committee’s governance documents?
   * Chair of Code of Conduct(CoC) committee has asked for us to review the documents
   * We don’t review similar documents for other committees
   * Given the new nature of these governance documents for each committee and how connected CoC is with the EC, they leadership wanted to act cautiously and not presume that we didn't want to review them.
   * Need to communicate and specify how the Executive Council delegates power: should we update our governance documents? Communicate with the Code of Conduct(CoC) committee? All operational decisions should be the responsibility of the individual committees.
   * ACTION: Karen will communicate with the committee to let them know they’re able to conduct their own actions and that we don’t feel the need to approve their governance documents
*  We are due for a Code of Conduct(CoC) transparency report for Q4
*  ACTION: Karen will communicate with chair of Code of Conduct(CoC) to clarify responsibilities for publishing reports


### 20/04  Executive Council in-person meeting



* Last year we met quite late, it would be better to meet sooner this year
* Would be optimal to have new Executive Director available to meet
* Potential option is to meet at CarpentryCon, or in the midwest near that time
* Also travel considerations for international attendees; near large international airport would be optimal
* Will continue this conversation in GitHub issue

### 20/05  Buddy assignments for new members

* matching new members with continuing members for mentorship and to answer questions
* ACTION: Amy will assign new members to Juan, Elizabeth, and Joslynn


### 20/06 February meeting times

* Amy made a chart of time zones and potential options for everyone
* Could potentially rotate time slots
* Sometimes folks may not have internet during non-work hours
* ACTION: Amy will send out poll for scheduling potential meeting times


### 20/07 Re-evaluation of [gatekeeper](https://frameshiftconsultingdotcom.files.wordpress.com/2016/10/frameshift_role_cards2.pdf) role

* Current meeting roles include facilitator, notekeeper, and timekeeper
* Gatekeeper would be good to maintain moving forward with a new Executive Council, with folks who may not always feel comfortable speaking up

### 20/08 Thanks to outgoing Executive Council members

* Kate, Karen, and Raniere!


### Non-verbal updates

*   [November minutes](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council/issues/51) have been approved but need to be posted in the public repo.
*   December minutes have not been posted for EC approval yet.
*   last year, the agenda/minutes document ended with the December 2018 meeting and the 2019 document (this document) started with the January 2019 meeting (even though the EC runs from February 1st - January 31st). It was suggested we move the January 2020 agenda/minutes to [the 2020 document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Y_VAdxHwy6nIl_ueG4goMk_B_3gNfK0-eSnkyWE84CY/edit) (after the meeting) for consistency.
*   Documentation for EC information has been revamped; see [EC Guide](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/blob/master/guide.md) for more information
