## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting May 13, 2020

Present: Konrad, Kari, Elizabeth, Joslynn, Juan, Paula, Lex, Cedric

Regrets: Amy

### 20/27 Kari presenting Year 1 strategic plan
* The plan is in the [repository](https://github.com/carpentries/strategic-plan), space to show progress of activity
* Show the community work is happening
* Blog post will be written to announce the plan
* All of the Issues have a label, what quarter work is being done (some may have multiple), what team is leading the work, which strategic goal the work is attached
* Q1 starts with April/May/June and goes through Q1 of 2021
* Next steps, what is the overarching progress for Year 2
* Updates to the repository with notes to issues will be made regularly. If community members make comments or have questions, there will be a planned response
* We are not going to do a three year plan, our approach will be one year at a time for milestones to inform next year
* Questions/comments
    * On the structure of document/blog post: can it clarify how to comment or engage. Kari to update the README with this information
    * The blogpost has a high level overview per quarter? The blogpost links to the repo README which is currently the whole plan
    * If we want to go open source, need contribution and commenting guide, have this as a separate document? Not only for  Executive Council but communicating with leaders of program, hear from community
    * Insert in strategic plan to develop materials, targets and what are we going to teach and discuss content. Previous Executive Council voted on previous plan. Kari mentioned updating curriculum and lessons is a goal for Q4. Capture/document in Year 1 plan for curriculum, content lives in lesson plan governance and Executive Council can’t dictate. Kari will add comments in an Issue to add comments.
    * Typical high-level plan, how can we turn this into something actionable or measurable? Kari responds with quarterly updates to the specific objectives. Including description inside the issue with rationale may help and can be doable. We can review how to make public facing achievements together during our meeting.
    * ACTIONS:
        * Kari will add README
        * Motion will be proposed in issue
    * Vote asynchronously by all

### 20/28 Changes made to By-Laws
* Minor updates/changes due to spelling, membership and other areas Motion: [https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/40](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/40)
* Only Executive Council can make changes and approve
* Vote formally on motion to approve language and get up to date
* Passed with 6 votes

### 20/29 Code of Conduct (CoC) Update
* No deadline until next week to become part of the handbook
* OpenCon issue - lessons learned and what it means for CoC
    * Blog post regarding it: [https://rebeccatennant10.wordpress.com/2020/05/01/what-really-happened-jon-tennant/](https://rebeccatennant10.wordpress.com/2020/05/01/what-really-happened-jon-tennant/)
* CoC reads very American
* Inherited CoC language from other CoCs and should be updated
    * Should we be briefed on OpenCon incident - there is a blogpost on this, see above
    * ACTION: invite someone from CoC to present the case and lessons learned
* CoC liaison is separate from CoC member, ACTION: Konrad will bring this up again
    * Kari responds that CoC wants to be dependent on the Executive Council and get decisions approved or reviewed. How can we help empower CoC?

### 20/30 Reporting back about two-day online meeting
* Groups meeting:
    * By-Laws
        * Reviewed and transformed questions into issues
        * Issues will need to be discussed on how to rephrase sentence
        * ACTION: Folks need to add comments or discussion
        * Priority three issues to Core Team, related to upcoming elections
        * Repo is private for Executive Council and director, Lex will figure out how to give access to Core Team
        * Any contributions around election are priority but other items can be discussed in the background until July
        * So we can review and finalise before September
        * One specific meeting for By-Laws in June, no date set
    * Mix and match workshops
        * What counts as an official/unofficial Carpentries workshop
        * How do we mix lessons together?
        * Issue for Executive Council/Executive Director repo of content
        * Summary is ready for review
        * How workshops exist and where to draw the line if it isn’t a workshop? When does the assessment survey not make sense to use? This is where we can identify unofficial workshops. Workshop with 75% (at least) official materials and abiding by format is official. Flexibility to add in 3 hours of outside content to accommodate funders or workshop needs. Develop rules on mix and match. Example: track the number of learners but don’t give assessment if it isn’t official. Core Team doesn't need to police content. Up to the organizer how to brand the workshop, which lesson to use and staff can assist.
        * Document is open for comment by the Core Team.
        * Questions: 1) What is the difference between Core Team and Staff clarification. Response: Due to fiscal sponsorship and legal response, term to describe these roles. They are not different things. 2) Clarify 75%, Response: High level of workshop content is ANY Carpentries materials.
        * Q In our minutes we should say Core Team?
            * ACTION: check minutes for this
    * Growing community - more learners, instructors, memberships
        * ACTION: Meet with Kari to discuss goals and overlapping with the Strategic Plan
        * Goal 1 [for pilot in South Africa](https://github.com/carpentries/strategic-plan/issues/39), an example of growth of community. ACTION: Kari will add outcomes to the pilot, metrics for number of instructors, workshops and community building.
    * Rubric for Public Statement
        * Scope of rubric to focus on public statements (and then bridge to other areas)
        * If event is triggered based on scenario
        * Evaluate level of response
        * Make statement for solidarity
        * Be transparent and open with community
        * Formalize discussion of the steps and bring in 2x2 to see how these scenarios can be evaluated to identify gaps and improve
    * ACTION by Elizabeth to prepare Doodle Polls for folks
        * By-Laws Meeting
        * June Executive Council Meeting
