## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting June 17, 2020

Present: unfortunately, this was not logged.

### 20/31 Need election officer for 2020
* Need someone to organize the election.
* There is a lot of documentation
* Mostly around (September), October and November.
* Juan volunteered to take the lead.
* Would be good to have someone with another year left to shadow Juan on this.
* Konrad agreed to be the shadow.

### 20/32 Working group updates
* Bylaws
    * Not finished yet, but have a good overview with a bunch of issues of what needs to be done
    * Motion today and also on community guidelines
    * There are concrete plans for a few of the issues, and still time for the election stuff
    * If the plan is too ambitious, some may be postponed until after the elections
    * Some issues may be brought to the full Executive Council for discussion
* **Motion** to approve small fixes to bylaws (Paula) [https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/42](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/42)
    * Lots of small changes like typos that do not impact the meaning
* Rubric for public statements
    * More work will be done on this and the plan is to circulate that within the next week
* Global Growth
    * More work will be done on this in the next two weeks

### 20/33 Approving the Committee Guidelines
* Originated from a wish to improve description of committee formation in the bylaw
* The idea is for the Executive Council to formally approve the committee guidelines, possibly with adjustments to make certain aspects non-optional. Based on the new guidelines, we will propose changes to the bylaws
* Proposed guidelines text is in a Google doc.
    * Some confusion around the language that this calls out Guidelines but is not explicit about what is required.
    * There is a distinction between task forces and committees. Should task forces be included here.
    * Task forces repo, that also has a template
    * We don't want to have to update the by-laws when a change needs to be made to a task force. Task forces are time-bound with a specific goal. Committees are more for ongoing work.
    * The minimum requirements should be in the by-laws.
    * Should we make a committee on task force policies? Everything in the Google Doc here should not be in the by-laws. The by-laws should refer to the more detailed documents that are easier to modify and update.
    * Do we want task forces and committees in the same document or separate document? The length of time of each makes it make more sense that these are different. Task forces don't likely need off-boarding
    * This group will restructure the committee guidelines, but we may need another group to look at the task force documentation.
    * ACTION ITEM: Kari will move the information about the task forces into a Google Doc.
    * ACTION ITEM: Everyone should comment on the Committee Guidelines text by the end of this weekend, June 21.
* **Motion**: [https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/43](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/43)

### 20/34 Fundraising discussion
* Diversifying revenue streams project plan
    * ACTION ITEM: Everyone please take 5 minutes to review the plan, particularly the aims and ‘how are you going to do it’ section.
    * Add your questions/comments directly to the document by next Friday 26 June.
* Discussion (20 minutes)
    * One of the Executive Council's responsibilities is to **identify revenue streams and resource development**, however it is not clear what the  Executive Council's role is in fundraising. Is the  Executive Council actively set up to fundraise, and/or willing to be involved in active fundraising activities?
* Thoughts from the Executive Council on fundraising in general
    * Historically the Executive Council has not had fundraising experience, and many of us are from academia where grants are the main fundraising. We haven't found fundraising experience in those we have found to consider for the Executive Council.
    * Experience with small groups and some of that has been more apparel-based and the swag that people can buy and some proceeds go to us. This also builds awareness outward from the organization. Might not generate as much, but a lot of people like to showcase those things.
    * Some of us have attended parties and such with donors.
    * It is a responsibility of the Board, but it wasn’t explicit when I signed up for this. But not being a local organization makes it challenging to do things like events
    * Philanthropy is relationship building. Those who are not in the position to do what we want to do may want to donate to help our efforts.
    * Using our network to get someone to be hired in a 50% position for The Carpentries is a form of fundraising.
    * While many of us feel we would not be good at sales, we are good at talking about the value of The Carpentries to others and getting others to participate, including joining as a membership organization.
    * The word "fundraising" turns people off, but we have highlighted a lot of activities that are definitely raising funds for us that we have been happy to be engaged with.
    * Offering swag may not be a lot per item, but we are a big community and this could add up to quite a bit of money.
    * We used to suggest donations be made for self-organized workshops.
    * Proceeds from a recently-published book are being donated to The Carpentries
    * A "fundraising" strategy will include many things, whether we call it that or something else.
    * Some experience with sales and long engagements and telling the story so that they think of you. Some organizations have philanthropic arms. How to set up a model of passive (like the donation button) vs. active fundraising.
* Brainstorming Questions **_(Action Item for _Executive Council_ to add their thoughts to these questions async)_**
    * Why would an individual donate to The Carpentries?
    * Why would an organisation donate to The Carpentries?
    * How does The Carpentries uniquely change lives?

### 20/35 Procedures for approving ang publishing Minutes
* According to the instructions on generating minutes, the original notes are to be edited for publication. This may mean removing information that might be useful for us later. We could instead vote on the markdown document that will be public. As long as it is not the official published minutes repo.
* ACTION ITEM: Konrad will make an issue with a suggestion for us to resolve this asynchronously.

### Non-verbal updates

* Kari **highly recommends** that Executive Council members watch the Strategies for Creating a Winning Board for your Nonprofit Organization [YouTube Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aMdhgG6J3eg&feature=youtu.be).
* Grant news/updates from Kari: We wrote a proposal to offer online Library Carpentry workshops for the [Network of the National Library of Medicine](https://nnlm.gov/) ($49,127). The proposal was tentatively accepted. We are currently writing a proposal ($50K) that we’ll submit to the [Spencer Foundation](https://www.spencer.org/) to teach online workshops at minority serving institutions in the U.S.
* Remember to review the Open Action Points at the top of this document. Status for this meeting: almost all action items still open
* We still need to approve and publish the minutes of the last four meetings [February](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council/issues/55), March, April and May (no github issues yet)
* The [motion to approve the one-year plan](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/41) passed. As a reminder: if we are voting on motions, we do this in a repository that is public. This to create transparency for our community (and others). The repository for motions is this one: [https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info) (find all open and past motions with [this search](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues?q=is%3Aissue+motion)). A note about this has now also been added to the top of this document as well as our meeting conduct document.
* Kari: Per The Carpentries fiscal sponsor agreement with Community Initiatives, we are to submit a contact list of our board to Community Initiatives. Please add your name, email, country code, and phone number to this list. This list is only shared with our client services manager for the purpose of reaching a board member (Executive Council member) in cases of emergency.
