### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting March 22, 2018

**Present**

* Lex Nederbragt
* Ethan White
* Karen Cranston
* Elizabeth Wickes
* Sue McClatchy
* Kate Hertweck
* Amy Hodge
* Mateusz Kuzak
* Raniere Silva
* Tracy Teal

**Minutes**

* **017/18 Face-to-face meeting**
    * Visa issues to US is not a problem for any of the non-US folks
    * US-East coast is more or less on the middle, meaning Gainesville would fit best
    * Meeting in Davis would allow interaction with staff
    * Two of the staff are in Gainesville
    * **Decision**: Gainesville, FL, USA
        * Arriving Gainesville the 17th
        * Meeting starts Monday morning the 18th
        * Flying back Tuesday 19th afternoon/lunch
        * Optional: stay another day to continue with practical work
    * **Action point**: everyone to start looking for flights
    * **Action point**: Tracy to inform us about travel arrangements
* **018/18 Communication and decisions beyond the monthly meeting**
    * Main rule: keep things as public as we can
    * We will create private Carpentries organisation for private EC information and decision making for EC + ED - staff
    * We also will have such a repo for EC - ED - staff for those few discussions where the ED is not supposed to be present
    * Good to use a tool that works for us, but keep in the back of head GitHub will stop to exist at some point
        * Unless there is an emergency shutdown it should be possible to save stuff in advance
        * We could make a continuously synced backup using gitlab or something similar
        * **Action point:** Elizabeth to create an issue in existing EC repo on general archiving plan for The Carpentries
* **019/18 Mission and vision for the Carpentries**
    * Getting community input prior to face-to-face meeting
    * Elizabeth & Amy volunteered last time to join Tracy in a task force to put together a proposal for the listening tour, collection of community input
        * A process similar to focus groups?
        * How to make sure we get useful input, asking the community the right questions?
        * **Action point**: Tracy is working on a plan for this
    * Are there common misconceptions in the community and beyond?
        * People think we have local Chapters (e.g. the New York chapter) or want them
        * People that want to throw a lesson in the pile
        * Others? Keep your ears open!
    * Date for launching the tour?
        * Virtual before and in-person at CarpentryCon
        * Use 1.5 months to gather and process feedback, would starting middle of April-ish
        * **Action point**: Tracy to coordinate with EW and AH
* **020/18 Liaison EC to CoC committee**
    * The CoC committee requests a EC member to be liaison
    * Ethan White volunteers
* **021/18 Overview of subcommittees**
    * New website needs to be populated and then we can discuss whether we want/need EC liaisons for each subcommittee
* **022/18 Relation between The Carpentries and Lesson Programs**
    * Initiated by the Bylaws committee
    * Crucial to functioning of the new organisation
    * Bylaws committee has tentatively landed on term ‘Lesson Program’ (LP)
        * Rather than ‘Organisation,  which SWC & DC no longer are
        * The term is understandable and explainable, short, functional
        * It results in compartmentalising curriculum and workshops
        * The Lesson Programs seems to wait for EC to determine how to organise
        * Open questions
            * Governance of Lesson Programs?
            * Curriculum Advisory Committee could be part of governance
            * What to put in the Bylaws and what to put in separate documents (policy, guidelines, …)
            * Onboarding process for new programs
        * The Bylaws Writing group (in particular Kate) is currently preparing a separate document with governance and other aspects for LP. Current document on lesson program guidelines: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gHti3NeXLMNarGpATredWxgJdYvU6Wy2h322V2xMQJA/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gHti3NeXLMNarGpATredWxgJdYvU6Wy2h322V2xMQJA/edit)
        * Software Carpentry is a well established unit with more or less a single workshop
        * Data Carpentry is a set of workshops with (mostly) non-overlapping curriculum, these could become separate LPs
        * Should we (not) name the specific Programs in the bylaws?
            * Makes the inclusion of a new Program formal
        * Instructor Training would be its own Program: the Instructor Training Program
    * Next steps for bylaws writing group
        * Next meeting we’ll present a plan of action
* **023/18 Style guide for the name of The Carpentries**
    * See [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/639](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/639)
    * Suggestion from Tracy:
        * ‘The Carpentries’ is the name of the organization and is singular. This is how we have it officially with CI and with the logo. E.g. "The Carpentries is a non-profit organization that… “.
        * The name of the lesson organizations are ‘the Carpentries’ or just ‘Carpentries’ and is plural. E.g. "We teach many Carpentries lessons."
        * Not sure if this could be official or not, or if we even want to address this, given the ubiquity of the term, but people who self identify with the organization are ‘Carpenter(s)’.  E.g. "As a Carpenter, I always use sticky notes when I teach"
        * Are there other areas where we would need to define?
    * There were some reservations about ‘Carpenter’ to identify instructors
    * **Motion**: EC moves to standardise use of ‘The Carpentries’ in all materials related to the organisation.
        * This means breaking any remaining links to older pages
        * Move everything over to ‘thecarpentries’ for URLs
    * thecarpentries.org is reserved by Ethan, he will transfer to the organisation
