### **Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting June 20, 2019**


**19/36 Re: CoC Reporting and Transparency** 


Two members of the Executive Council were contacted by a member of the community regarding transparency concerns that stemmed from a reported Code of Conduct (CoC) issue. Because of the way current policies are written, in the unusual situation when it is deemed appropriate for the Executive Council to be made aware of any details regarding a CoC issue, we are not at liberty to discuss them. We then discussed whether we should review the privacy policy for CoC issues as related to staff and Executive Council members; it may be that the need for greater transparency overrides the privacy of the individuals to some degree in these cases. We understand that by not communicating anything, some in the community may assume bad intent on our part in whatever actions we have undertaken.

**19/37 Nomination process:**

  - We need to think about who we want to nominate to the next Executive Council. Thinking also about nomination recruitment email to try and get good language to get more people interested.
  - We need to start earlier with this process.
  - We are still looking for getting someone with board experience.
  - Communication and attendance expectations need to be made clear. Executive Council needs to communicate these expectations clearly to candidates, especially with our working across so many time zones.
  - The roles and responsibilities document should be reviewed/published to help with nominations.
  - Next agenda needs to have a list of people and skills we want in next year’s Executive Council.

**19/38 2x2 program**

  - Library Carpentry group was excited about this. Will need some Executive Council representation, also need people from Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry.
  - We should approve this as a new committee. Kate will add the issue to the public repo for voting. 
  - Concerns about how integrated Executive Council is with this community member work? Some boards are really removed.

**19/39 Minutes and Agenda Responsibilities** 

Discussion pushed to next month because of low attendance and we are missing the person whose agenda item this is

**19/40 Financial strategy**

  - Question from Tracy: what does the Executive Council want to see in our financial strategy plans? 
  - Suggestion that we go ahead and try to get sponsors and then develop policy around that as we dig in. Setting a specific timeline for the sponsorship program.
  - Had a great financial report a few meetings ago. As Executive Council, suggestion that we would like to see what the potential income streams look like and the pros/cons/costs/probability of success for each. Considering taking programs off the table if fundraising can’t meet the goals.
  - This challenge is reflective of the delay of becoming a task force. Being a task force means that Tracy is dependent on the other task force members, which will always slow things down. 
  - Should this be a task force?  
  - Anyone opposed to Tracy pursuing sponsorships without a task force being in place? No.  
  - Tracy can create some sort of application process so that there can be oversight and accountability with the information coming in. Will need Executive Council members to review applications, but the solicitation of applications could go ahead without a task force. 

**19/41 CoCc liaison**

  - Elizabeth would like to step down from this, so we will be seeking a new volunteer for someone to step in.
  - Will not leave it vacant, but looking for a new volunteer sooner rather than later.
  - Karen might be able to do it, as it aligns with the task force.
  - Karen as new liaison and have one of the new folk involved with the Code of Conduct task force so they can get involved and onboarded liaison.

**19/42 Communication:**

  - New CoCc liaison, Code of Conduct liaison voting rights, Code of Conduct task force, sponsorship opportunities.
  
### Non-verbal updates



1. Blog post on financial was published on May 28. Thanks to all who helped with that.
2. **MOTION:** [Issue #13](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/13) regarding Executive Council Code of Conduct liaison voting appears to have enough votes (5)
3. Update on In-person meeting ([issue #62](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/62)): 
   1. Please pencil in on your calendars Nov. 4-5 in Europe (tentatively Utrecht) as the core meeting dates, with pre-meeting and post-meeting time for those who can extend
4. Monthly Task Force on Communities
   2. Status update from Karen on charter creation: see [issue](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/63) as well as [draft of charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jmiazewS5awDBYbgypvlJwX-mLsupDH5uxc0XboM438/edit) ; major update is that proposed scope is general community conflict (rather than a narrow scope focused on Code of Conduct level issues that happen outside of our spaces)
5. Monthly Task Force on Sponsorships
   3. No further progress has been made on this. Worked is planned for the end of the month.
6. Status of application for Stanford ACT, due July 1 (see [issue #56](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/56))
   4. Tracy is drafting this, with Amy to review
