### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting March 21, 2019**

####  **19/18 Officer elections**

- Amy standing as Chair
-  Raniere standing as Treasurer
- Kate standing as Vice-chair
- Mesfin standing as Secretary
- Motion: We approve the following officer roles for the 2019 Executive Council: Amy Hodge as Chair, Kate Hertweck as Vice-chair, Raniere Silva as Treasurer, and Mesfin Diro as Secretary
- Github issue: [https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/9](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/9) 
- Tracy asks if we can link on-boarding doc from somewhere

#### **19/19 Finances**

-  Have less in bank than what CI recommends

- Suggest postponing the in-person meeting

- CI supposed to notify us, did not

- We have short and long-term plans for getting out of this situation

  - Short-term - limiting expenses, push for workshops, sponsorships from companies, asking CI about what happens if we can’t make payroll
  - Building in more oversight into finances

- How did this happen?

  - Transition to new treasurer
  - This transition also happened at the end of the year
  - Transition in staffing (Elizabeth taking over)
  - Primary person at CI switched (with some sooner-than-expected timing)

- Can we have a better split between infrastructure costs and personnel costs?

  - Wikipedia donation drive example
  - Fundraiser / donation drive for infrastructure?
  - Infrastructure costs much less than salary

  - Be better at pointing out that Carpentries is a non-profit that requires funds to operate
  - Is there a way to donate? Put that in carpentry clippings? Put button on pages
    - [https://carpentries.wedid.it/](https://carpentries.wedid.it/) 
    - Be better at pointing out what we do with the funds

#### **19/20 In person meeting alternatives**

- Set up time and a series of meetings and asynchronous work over a set amount of time
- Have scheduled times for check-in, planning, working, passing off to groups in other time zones 
-  Tracy: we might be able to add a meeting into a later grant this year.  She already has some short term priorities. 
- Year doesn’t end in July - could do a in person meeting  later in the year, especially if we are looking at longer-term plans
-  The Executive council members who have expertise in developing strategic plan are asked to get involved in preparing the strategic plan. How do we do this?
-  Are there folks in the community who can help? A book we can journal club?
- Amy happy to spend some time working on this, potentially resources at Stanford business school
- Can we use our AMY database to look for people with business school connections?
-  Do we have any budget for consultants? Not right now, but talking to Moore about grant for operational capacity; gap in business development
-  General consensus about doing a meeting later in the year (f2f or virtual)
  -  Some working groups before then; need good prep work so that these are efficient
-  One piece of unfinished business - VISION! Can we do this in the next month?
  -   Karen will compile what we have so far
  - Tracy planning a values project for Q3
- Passing responsibility for Executive Council  in person meeting  / working groups to new chair
- Could do two working groups - EU / Africa time and North America time
- Get some sort of grid for the major topics that we need to cover
  - Plan for the time needed for each one
  - Amy to do this; determine what we did not get done last year; meet with Tracy to discuss
- Tracy notes that funds for African Coordinator have been committed (in essence, this is grant-funded); we are obligated to do this via other agreements & Lex - would also love to see Nordic / Baltic coordinator through similar mechanism
