### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting January 31st, 2019

**19/004 First transition of The Carpentries Executive Council**
*   We have a GitHub issue with information and action points on onboarding
*   Karen will send around poll to determine next meeting time; one meeting per month will likely be sufficient
*   Will need to schedule in-person Executive Council meeting; add to agenda for next time

**19/005 Election debriefing**

*   Kate and Maneesha did a ton of work putting this doc together
*   Have padded timeline for 2019, added action items
*   Want to make sure we catch as many voting members as possible
*   Need better assurances that the right people have access to election data for audit purposes (who got ballots, results, etc)

**19/006 Election of officers**

*   At first meeting or second meeting?
    *   All members of the Executive Council currently having an officer role are continuing in the new Executive Council
*   We decided to vote on officers at the second meeting

**19/007 Routines around communication with the community**

*   Propose that after each meeting, we send some words for newsletter
*   Kate will begin with this meeting and sending news to Maneesha
*   Is there too much in the newsletter already? Should poll community?
    *   Tracy - Sarah is looking into this

**19/008 How much should Executive Council get involved with operational decisions?**

*   Escalating issues to Executive Council: what issues should the Executive Council decide, and what should be managed on the staff or committee level?
*   The example issues we discussed (the difference in reported fees for self-organised workshops between SWC and DC, which turned out to be a mistake on a website) were handled appropriately, as things determined by lesson policy should have guidance from the Executive Council
*   Executive Council members can offer their personal (not official Executive Council) opinions as part of community discussions, as we tend to be engaged in the community
*   The community can decide if issues should be escalated; there may be multiple stakeholders included in a particular discussion and the Executive Council should see all those perspectives as a part of strategic planning
*   We need to protect the time we spend in meetings for strategic planning, so operational details are less important for the Executive Council to be consulted about

**19/009 Executive Council liaison to Code of Conduct committee**

*   Ethan will be stepping down as liaison to Code of Conduct committee; we need to replace him (at least for the time being)
*   Elizabeth volunteers (makes sense because she is also on the committee reviewing the Code of Conduct processes)
*   The Code of Conduct committee is developing a process for soliciting and accepting new members; does the Executive Council need to approve this policy?
*   The Code of Conduct committee is welcome to send their proposal for membership to the EC, but the Executive Council task force will be reviewing all processes in coming months anyway

**19/010 Farewell to retiring members**

*   We exchanged many thanks, virtual hugs and cupcakes.
